Getting started with development
===================================

This page will guide you through everything, that you need to contribute to this project.

Installing
------------------

**In the console:**

The projects repository is located at `Github <https://github.com/JulianSobott/OpenDrive>`_.
To clone it to a local repository. Go to the parent folder where you want the repo placed.
Then type in the console:

.. code-block:: console

    git clone https://gitlab.com/JulianSobott/mower.git

**In PyCharm:**

In PyCharm: In the menu: VCS -> Checkout from Version Control -> Git. I the URL paste
`https://github.com/JulianSobott/OpenDrive` and select the parent directory.


The code is written in python, so you need python 3.6+ installed.
If you haven't get it from `python.org <https://www.python.org/downloads/>`_.
Make sure, that you check the box `install pip`.

The easiest thing to set everything up, is to use pipenv. To install `pipenv` type:

.. code-block:: console

    pip install pipenv

Now that you have `pipenv` installed, you can install all necessary dependencies in a virtualenv.

.. code-block:: console

    pipenv install

**What is a virtualenv?**

A virtualenv is a virtual environment. It is used, that all project dependencies are not installed inside the global
python folder, but inside a separate folder. This folder contains only libraries that are necessary for the project.
This is also useful, when different projects need different versions of a library. Every time you type `pip install
XXX` the library is installed inside the global python path. To install it in the virtualenv use `pipenv install XXX`.

Generate the docs
--------------------

The docs are generated by `sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/>`_. To install sphinx globally:

.. code-block:: console

    pip install Sphinx

To generate the docs:

.. code-block:: console

    cd docs
    make html

**Tip:** When you have your project opened in PyCharm. At the bottom left there is a tab with *Terminal*
If you open it, a terminal is opened in pycharm. The current path is automatically set to the projects path.
So you only need to cd in docs.

You should see the results in `OpenDrive/docs/_build/html`.
You can open the `index.html` in your browser and watch the generated documentation.
If you are working in PyCharm you can right-click the `index.html` file and select *run* to run it at the localhost in
your browser. No advantage, maybe more easy, then searching in the file explorer for the file.

Start coding
---------------

You can test if everything works, when you right click the tests folder and choose ``run``. This should run all tests
and all tests should pass.

Before you start coding, make sure that you read the :doc:`../dev_guide`.
